update documents for iochaos (#903)
chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh: website/docs/user_guides/io_chaos.md

sidebar_label: IOChaos Experiment
---

> This document helps you run IOChaos experiments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document walks  you through the IOChaos experiment.
```

> This document walks  you through the IOChaos experiment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document walks you through the IOChaos experiment.
```

> IOChaos allows you to simulate file system faults such as IO delay and read/write errors. It can inject delay and errno when your program is running IO system calls such as `open`, `read` and `write`.

Author: Fixed

> IOChaos allows you to simulate file system faults such as IO delay and read/write errors. It can inject delay and errno when your program are running IO system calls such as `open`, `read` and `write`.

Reviewer 2: s/are/is/g

kind: IoChaos
metadata:
  name: io-delay-example
spec:
  action: latency
  mode: one
  selector:
    labelSelectors:
      app: etcd

>   volumePath: /var/run/etcd

Reviewer 3: The description of `volumePath` is missing below.

Author: Fixed

| Field | Description | Sample Value |
|:------|:------------------|:--------------|
| **mode** | Defines the mode for selector. | `one` / `all` / `fixed` / `fixed-percent` / `random-max-percent` |
| **selector** | Selects pods which will be injected with io chaos.|
| **action** | Represents the IOChaos actions. Refer to [IOChaos available actions](#iochaos-available-actions) for more details. | `delay` / `fault` / `attrOverride` |
| **delay** | Specify the latency of injection. The duration might be a string with signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix. Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", and "h". | `"300ms"` / `"2h45m"` |
| **errno** | Defines the error code returned by an IO action. See the [common Linux system errors](#common-linux-system-errors) for more Linux system error codes. | `2` |

> | **attr** | Defines the attribute which will be overrided and the corresponding value | [examples](https://github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh/tree/master/examples/io-attr-example.yaml) |

Reviewer 2: s/overrided/overridden/g

| **percent** | Defines the probability of injecting errors. It's represented as a percent, which means the domain of it should be 1-100. | `100` (by default) |
| **path** | Defines the path of files for injecting IOChaos actions. It should be a glob for the files which you want to inject errno or delay. | "/var/run/etcd/*\*/\*" |
| **methods** | Defines the IO methods for injecting IOChaos actions. It is represented as an array of string. | `open` / `read` See the [available methods](#available-methods) for more details. |

> | **duration** | Represents the duration of a chaos action. The duration might be a string with the signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with optional fraction and a unit suffix. | `"300ms"` / `"2h45m"`|

Reviewer 2: an optional fraction

| Field | Description | Sample Value |
|:------|:------------------|:--------------|

> | **mode** | Defines the mode for selector. | `one` / `all` / `fixed` / `fixed-percent` / `random-max-percent` |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| **mode** | Define the mode for selector. | `one` / `all` / `fixed` / `fixed-percent` / `random-max-percent` |
```

Beginning a sentence with a verb prototype, don't need to use `Defines`

| **selector** | Specifies the pods to be injected with IO chaos. |

> | **action** | Represents the IOChaos actions. Refer to [IOChaos available actions](#iochaos-available-actions) for more details. | `delay` / `fault` / `attrOverride` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **action** | Represents the IOChaos actions. Refer to [Available actions for IOChaos](#iavailable-actions-for-iochaos) for more details. | `delay` / `fault` / `attrOverride` |
```

Reviewer: Please also update the corresponding link text for line 60

| **volumePath** | The mount path of the target volume | `"/var/run/etcd"` |

> | **delay** | Specify the latency of injection. The duration might be a string with signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with an optional fraction and a unit suffix. Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", and "h". | `"300ms"` / `"2h45m"` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **delay** | Specifies the latency of the fault injection. The duration might be a string with a signed sequence of decimal numbers, each with an optional fraction and a unit suffix. Valid time units are "ns", "us" (or "µs"), "ms", "s", "m", and "h". | `"300ms"` / `"2h45m"` |
```

> | **errno** | Defines the error code returned by an IO action. See the [common Linux system errors](#common-linux-system-errors) for more Linux system error codes. | `2` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **errno** | Defines the error code returned by an IO action. See [common Linux system errors](#common-linux-system-errors) for more Linux system error codes. | `2` |
```

> | **attr** | Defines the attribute which will be overridden and the corresponding value | [examples](https://github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh/tree/master/examples/io-attr-example.yaml) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **attr** | Defines the attribute to be overridden and the corresponding value | [examples](https://github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh/tree/master/examples/io-attr-example.yaml) |
```

> | **percent** | Defines the probability of injecting errors. It's represented as a percent, which means the domain of it should be 1-100. | `100` (by default) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **percent** | Defines the probability of injecting errors in percentage. | `100` (by default) |
```

IOChaos currently supports the following actions:

* **delay**: IO delay action. You can specify the latency before the IO operation returns a result.
* **fault**: IO fault action. In this mode, IO operations returns an error.
* **attrOverride**: Override attributes of a file.

### delay

> If you are using the delay action, you can edit spec as below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the `delay` action, you can edit the specification as below:
```

```yaml
spec:
  action: delay
  delay: "1ms"
```

> It will inject 1ms latency for selected methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will inject a latency of 1ms into the selected methods.
```

### fault

> If you are using the fault action, you can edit spec as below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the `fault` action, you can edit the specification  as below:
```

```yaml
spec:
  action: fault
  errno: 32
```

The selected methods return error 32, which means `broken pipe`.

### attrOverride

If you are using the `attrOverride` mode, you can edit the specification as below:

```yaml
spec:
  action: attrOverride
  attr:
    perm: 72
```

> Then the permission of selected files will be overridden with 110 in octal, which means nobody can read or modify it (without CAP_DAC_OVERRIDE). See [available attributes](#available-attributes) for a list of all possible attributes to override.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then the permission of selected files will be overridden with 110 in octal, which means the files cannot be read or modified (without CAP_DAC_OVERRIDE). See [available attributes](#available-attributes) for a list of all possible attributes to override.
```

> **Note: attributes could be cached by linux kernel, so it could have no effect if your program has accessed to it before.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:
>
> Attributes could be cached by Linux kernel, so it might have no effect if your program had accessed it before.**
```

```yaml
spec:

>   action: errno

Reviewer 3: Should be `fault`?

Author: Yes!
